
<BOX TEXT with Raghu Rai’s Photographs>

I am 20 year old. My name is Sarfeen Khan. I have always wondered how my life would have been if the Bhopal gas tragedy didn't happen. From childhood I have seen my father with serious heart problems and my mother having difficulties with her eyesight. I was born ten years after the Bhopal gas tragedy. But I  have seen friends and relatives in my community born with disabilities and deformities. I want to be a teacher when I graduate from college  and have always fought for basic rights which people my age have taken for granted in other parts of the country. We do not have clean drinking water and good health care. 

The polluted factory site has not been cleaned up. The companies involved have not been held to account.
US-based Union Carbide Corporation (UCC) has repeatedly refused to face criminal charges of culpable homicide in India. 
The Dow Chemical Company, which bought UCC in 2001, has shown a similar arrogant disregard for the Indian legal system. 
The United States government has acted as a safe haven for UCC and Dow, ignoring its responsibility to ensure that US companies are held accountable for human rights abuses elsewhere in the world.

Meanwhile, the Indian government itself has consistently underestimated the number of people who were killed or injured in the aftermath of the leak, and has also failed to ensure a clean-up of the factory site.

I appeal to you to sign my petition and stand up for Justice for Bhopal Gas Tragedy Victims.. 
Together, we ask the Government of the United States to apply political pressure to ensure that Dow and UC Cthere can be more  comply with Indian court orders, and the companies pay adequate compensation to the survivors and cover the costs of the clean-up of the Bhopal site.
We ask the Government of India to ensure that survivors of the gas leak get the compensation they deserve and the medical treatment they need. We also ask it to urgently clean up the Bhopal site, ultimately making the companies responsible for the pollution foot the bill.

30 years after  Bhopal gas tragedy I only hope that those responsible for one of the worst industrial disasters will be punished and my parents will get the compensation they deserve. 

On the night of 2 December 1984, a cloud of toxic gas leaked from a Union Carbide pesticide factory in Bhopal. Over 22,000 people are estimated to have died as a result, while about 570,000 were exposed to damaging levels of toxic gas. 
Thirty years later, that tragedy has turned into an ongoing human rights travesty.
Many in Bhopal still suffer from serious health problems, and pollution from the abandoned site continues to threaten the health of surrounding communities. Survivors and families of those killed have had to fight every step of the way for the most basic medical treatment and clean water. But they have not received adequate compensation for their injuries. 

Thirty years is too long to wait for justice and remedy. The wait must end. Now.
